---
title: "Dev Diary #2: Swapping engines"
description: "Astro-nomically hard to migrate"
date: 2025-03-08
tags: dev-diary
---

Wow, it has been a long time since the last dev diary, more than a few years actually.

Anyways, I'm now using Astro as the static generator. But I should've just remade the site from scratch.

## The Good

Astro is very fast, very configurable, also very cool. I've faced zero issues with the actual build process itself.

It also inherits a lot of the Markdown templating features that other static site generators use, which makes migrating my old, everything-hardcoded site easier.

The scoped styling is a bit of a hit-or-miss, but I sometimes prefer it over a global CSS file. *I am totally not using scoped styling because the imported CSS files were not applying, noooooo, that's stupid*.

The `public` route was a lifesaver for a lot of my older stuff that shouldn't get processed.

## The Bad

Now, really, the issue here lies in my inability to use Astro itself (it is my first time using it after all), but setting up blogs was a *pain*. It took me a solid 5 hours to debug and wrangle myself out of the mess that is my blog structure.

I feel kind of sorry for Astro, seeing that it needed to handle Jekyll templates directly translated to JSX, no matter how badly it was ported.

## The ugly

It was a nightmare setting up the blog generation, attributed to my incompetence and the awful structure of my site. But I guess, again, that's on me.

## The conclusion?

It's been a while since I wrote any blog here, so forgive me if I sound like a caveman. Astro good, use it if you like it.

If you don't, there's always Nextjs
